[MUSIC]
>> Kevin Whinnery: So
that was the fix that we had submitted for
completing that particular issue,
and that was awesome.
It looks like we might
have some other ones
here.
>> Kevin Whinnery: Okay, so
we have a,
>> Kevin Whinnery: Slightly
different one here.
It looks like this was
maybe not the theme piece.
So we can actually do
that together right now,
since I don't think we have a pull request
for the theme challenge specifically.
So the other issue that
we that we had open
was the ability to change
the current CSS class of
the component.
>> Kevin Whinnery: Let's
see here.
>> Kevin Whinnery: Based on some
kind of selector, or a radio button,
or something that would
indicate that we wanna change
the current theme of the object.
So let's go ahead and
implement that here together.
So at the end of the day,
what we'd want to do,
here is the the todoapp section, which is
the container for the entire interface.
And if we look at our
todo controller here,
the element that we
are binding to is this todoapp,
which I'm sure many of
you already figured out.
Let me back out the changes here,
cuz I haven't done that.
So what we want to do is
conditionally add a class
to this section that kind of
contains all of our component.
Based on the property of a View model that
we'll update through some kind of user
interface component.
So the way that View provides to
do this is a couple of things.
One thing you could do is you could
have a Mustache template here
which will put the value of a View model
property directly into the class
list of the element here.
So I could have a themeClass
like View model property, and I could
drop it directly in the class list there.
The other thing that I can do,
is I can use a bind directive.
Which is a little bit more flexible
if you have to do complex things with
the classes that you're adding
based on the state of the model.
So one of the ways that we have to do
that is with this v-bind directive.
We can bind the class of that object to
be the result of an array of properties,
or of an object with properties
that we can toggle true or false,
indicating whether or
not that class should be selected.
So in this case, I'll pass in an array
of potential model properties.
In this case, I'll just call it dark,
because by default
we'll assume that the light theme
is essentially the default,
and just add some additional styles for
the dark theme.
>> Kevin Whinnery: So
what we're gonna, excuse we'll do that,
we'll actually just call that theme.
So we'll be setting up property
based on the View model.
So now I think that's pretty much all
we're gonna have to do here in the markup.
If we go to the into the actual view,
we're gonna add another
property called theme.
And this is actually where we'll set
the default, so the CSS theme for
light will be the value by default.
Or we could actually not have
a light theme class at all, and
just leave it empty.
But we'll have a light theme class,
just in case we decide we wanna add
some properties for that later.
So now what we need to do,
actually I lied,
we do need to go back to
the markup a little bit.
So down at the bottom here,
at the section that has
the filters,
we'll do something just quick and dirty.
There's a few ways you could do this,
you could do like an input radio button.
Which maybe I will do right now,
input radio
with a name of a theme,
and a value of, say,
light.
>> Kevin Whinnery: And
we'll default that to checked.
in addition,
we're going to bind that to that theme
property that we just created.
>> Kevin Whinnery: So
that's gonna be our radio option for
the light theme.
And then we're gonna do
something similar for
the dark theme.
>> Kevin Whinnery: Although this time,
it's not going to be checked, and
the value is going to be dark.
>> Kevin Whinnery: So
we've updated our view model to track
this new property called theme.
We have a little bit of user interface
here to allow people to select a radio
button based on their current preference.
It's gonna start updating the model,
which should start toggling
this class up here at the top.
So let's fire that up,
make sure that that worked.
>> Kevin Whinnery: And again,
because I was spamming my database,
we're gonna have a long way
to scroll down to the bottom.
But there is our light theme and
our dark theme,
which doesn't seem to be updating
the way that I had thought.
>> Kevin Whinnery: Let's see here,
name theme, value dark.
>> Kevin Whinnery: Actually,
you know what?
This is gonna change that to be
a Boolean and rather than a string.
So that's not exactly what I want in this
instance.
>> Kevin Whinnery: All
right.
>> Kevin Whinnery: What
did I goof up there?
Let's see
>> Kevin Whinnery: Yeah, I'm not sure.
That kinda matches my node over there.
So I'm gonna have to dig into that.
>> Speaker 2: [INAUDIBLE] it
needs a checkbox.
>> Speaker 3: Does it need to
be checkboxed instead of radio?
>> Kevin Whinnery: No, I think the radio
is what I want, because I only want one of
these to be selected at any given time.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, good point.
>> Kevin Whinnery: What is weirding me out
a little bit is the fact
that I can't update it.
It could be some z-indexing stuff.
I'll just, as a Hail Mary, try this and
then I will leave you alone to debug this.
I do wanna show you how this works though,
so I'll do this over the break.
All right, so there, I think it
might have been like a z-indexing
issue in the CSS,
cuz I am able to start it, click it now.
So now, if everything worked according
to plan, if I inspect this component.
>> Kevin Whinnery: Open up the body,
there is the current class,
and.
>> Kevin Whinnery: That's
not exactly doing what
I thought it would do.
Let's see, value dark.
>> Kevin Whinnery: All right,
so that binding isn't working
exactly the way I wanted here.
I thought that,
I'm gonna have to figure out why it is.
Man, that is a bummer.
But the idea is,
we are going to be toggling this property.
That's gonna be updating
the class on that DOM element,
and then we can add CSS
styles to make that work.
So during the during the next
break I'll debug that.
I'll check my gist that I had set up for
that, figure out why that's not working,
and we'll cover that when
we when we come back.
But the next piece that we are gonna
tackle was starting to dig into
socket I/O little bit.
Yes, question.
>> Speaker 4: A quick question about,
this a little a while ago, but
what about the allDone input?
Did you mean?
>> Kevin Whinnery: Done input.
>> Speaker 4: They're just asking,
what about the allDone input?
>> Kevin Whinnery: Yeah,
so.
>> Speaker 4: I can
ask them to clarify if.
>> Kevin Whinnery: Yeah what is
the allDone,
what do we mean by the allDone input?
>> Speaker 4: I'll ask them.
>> Kevin Whinnery: Okay.
>> Speaker 5: The main section,
right above the to do's header is
bound to an allDone View model.
Line 25, I think.
>> Speaker 4: I think maybe,
is that the completed stuff?
>> Kevin Whinnery: View model,
allDone.
>> Speaker 4: Alt toggle all.
It's if you you wanna mark
all of them as [CROSSTALK].
>> Kevin Whinnery: Yeah, so
that is essentially, I think that's
gonna be like a Boolean toggle,
let's take a look at that.
>> Speaker 4: Maybe it's just saying that
it's not saving to the database.
>> Kevin Whinnery: The allDone is not
saving to the database.
That's a good question.
I'm not sure off the dome
what that's supposed to do,
cuz the allDone, this is code that I
took from the To Do MVC implementation
is not actually a model object.
You know what it is?
I think it's probably a computed property.
So allDone is this computed property here,
which has a getter and a setter.
So it can be treated
as if it is a property
of the View model associated
with the component.
And then when it's called in the view,
like it is over here,
the get function is called.
So this check box is
toggled based on whether or
not all of the current to do
items have been completed.
So that's where that's coming from,
it's one of these computed properties.
>> Speaker 6: [COUGH] Did
want to save all of them after doing that,
you'd just update this for each call back
to mark them as modified and [INAUDIBLE].
>> Kevin Whinnery: Yes,
yes that's what we would do.
So you would, in addition to completed for
each of them,
you would also mark them as modified,
and they would all go to the server.
Based on the current implementation.
So the setter is what happens on change.
So if I were to click this check box,
then that's when the setter
logic gets executed.